---
layout: post
title: "Big news: cocotb 2.0 has landed!"
author: Philipp Wagner
---

cocotb 2.0 is the next major milestone for our Python-based verification framework, and we couldn’t be more thrilled to share it with you.

To be precise, cocotb 2.0.0 was released live at [ORConf](https://fossi-foundation.org/orconf/2025) in September, followed by cocotb 2.0.1 this week.
We held off on the big announcement until now to make sure everything was rock-solid.
And guess what?
It is.
cocotb 2.0 is ready for prime time—whether you’re a long-time user or just getting started.
Grab it today from [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/cocotb/) and dive in!

## What’s new in 2.0?

For this milestone, we put the spotlight on developer experience.
Chip design and verification are tough enough.
Your tools should make life easier, not harder.

We got told many times: with cocotb, writing testbenches feels intuitive and natural.
And we couldn't agree more -- except for those corner cases, where it isn't.
For cocotb 2.0, we took a hard look at all the issue reports and hallway discussions we had where people got confused by behavior.
In many cases, we could make cocotb just do the right thing.
In some cases, "doing the right thing" required changes to the programming interface, and hence potentially changes to user testbenches.
That's why we call this release cocotb 2.0: even though many testbenches will run without any modification, some testbenches will require updates for cocotb 2.0.
But we're convinced: your testbenches will be easier to understand and extend as result!

Take a look at the [step-by-step migration guide](https://docs.cocotb.org/en/stable/upgrade-2.0.html) to guide you through the upgrade from cocotb 1.x to 2.0.
**The migration guide is also a great starting point to learn more about all the great new features that made it into cocotb 2.0!**

Want the full scoop?
Check out the [release notes](https://docs.cocotb.org/en/stable/release_notes.html) and be prepared to get overwhelmed!

## A showcase in open source collaboration

None of this would have happened without our incredible users, developers, and maintainers. cocotb 2.0 is proof of what open-source collaboration can achieve. You’re amazing. Truly.

## Enjoy cocotb 2.0!

If something doesn’t work as expected, reach out [via our support channels](https://docs.cocotb.org/en/development/support.html). We’re happy to help and excited to see what you’ll build next!
